the United Nations top court has decided
that Israel must immediately halt its
military offensive in Rafa in southern
Gaza the international court of justice
which rules on disputes between
countries says the catastrophic
situation in Gaza had deteriorated and
described humanitarian conditions in
Rafa as disastrous Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has again
rejected allegations of genocide calling
them false and outrageous Lucy
Williamson has the latest from Jerusalem
Israel's soldiers have been ordered to
push into Rafa Israel's leaders have
been ordered to
stop footage from both sides shows the
fighting as Israeli troops Edge closer
to the city center but the un's highest
court today focused on
civilians those still there and the
800,000 who are fled Israel must
immediately hold its military offens and
any other action in the Rafa
Governor which may inflict on the
Palestinian group in Gaza conditions of
life that could bring about its physical
destruction in whole or in part Israel
says this is a precise and limited
operation but satellite pictures of Rafa
show the destruction less than 2 weeks
after the
assault today Israel's Army said it had
recovered the bodies of three hostages
from northern Gaza Michelle nissam orian
Hernandez and Kanan Blanca one member of
the war cabinet said Israel had to keep
fighting to return its hostages and
Safeguard its citizens and would
continue to act according to
international
law foreign criticism of Israel's
actions in Gaza is growing but prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu or BB as
he's known is comfortable being seen as
the staunch defender of Israel's
security Under Siege I don't like being
to say the least I don't think he's a
more criminal it's very easy to sit
miles away and criticize what's
happening do you have a better
alternative I don't really care about
what people thinking about us you can
see that if we do care about what people
think us so we should stop the war no we
are here we are Israel therefore it's
really uh important us to have a support
and we don't get it
MRI Sheltering in a tent on the coast
north of Rafa had little faith in the
Court's power to change her
situation implement this on the ground
they shouldn't say one thing and do
something different today they say they
want to stop the war but the massacres
are only
increasing the Rafer offensive has
blocked key Aid routes through southern
Gaza supplies brought in Via a new US
Pier quickly looted the court today
ordered Israel to reopen the Rafa
Crossing new battle lines in this war
driven by promises on both sides to
protect civilians Lucy Williamson BBC
News
Jerusalem Dominic casani is here with me
um the jurisdiction of the Court can
they enforce this not really Clive no
it's not as if there's a world police
force out there to to go and execute a
warrant look South Africa asked for a
lot more than it actually got here so
while this is is chalking this up as a
victory if you actually look at the
wording it only applies to um Rafa
nowhere else in Gaza and there's
actually room in here for Israel to
actually effectively appease the courts
because the court says hold the military
offensive there if it may may bring
about the physical destruction of the
Palestinians so in essence it's saying
if you've got other military options go
for those on the enforceability the
Practical route for South Africa if
nothing happens is to go to the UN and
try and get a security Council vote but
then of course that becomes political
the US has a a block there so in reality
this is where law and diplomacy rubs up
and the court has tried to P pull off a
balancing act it stopped shorts Yes
again I'm talking about this being
genocide it's trying to find the
language to underline the alarm and
reflect what it's seeing on the ground
but it's not tone death to diplomacy so
it's really bassing this towards Israel
and critically also the US and country
is saying enforce this find a solution
sure okay Dominic thank you Dominic
cashian our legal Affairs correspondent
there